**Problem description:**

In the past few decades, recommender systems have become increasingly prevalent in our lives due to the growth of web services like YouTube, Amazon, Netflix, and many more. Recommender systems are becoming an indispensible part of our everyday online experiences, from e-commerce (which suggests articles to buyers that might interest them) to online advertising (which suggests to users the proper contents, matching their tastes). How can we estimate the best recommendation for customers based on their items approach by studying the issues with the "Book Recommendation System" feature? A recommendation system assists a business in developing a devoted clientele and gaining the trust of those who visit your website in search of the goods and services they need. These days, the recommendation system is so strong that it can also manage a new user who is visiting the website for the first time. They suggest things that are in style or have high ratings right now. They can also suggest products that will maximize revenue for the business. supplying precise data for analysis and forecasting to be carried out using this data. Our project's primary goal is to develop a predictive book recommender model that will enable consumers to select a book that suits them best based on their reading preferences.

**Data Description:**

There are three datasets: • Book information: ISBN, book title, book author, publisher, year of publication, image URL-S, image URL-M, and image URL-L • User-ID, location, and age data • Ratings information (Book-Rating, ISBN, User-ID) An important factor in recommendations is user involvement. Data preparation is essential for the successful construction of the collaborative filtering model in recommender systems. The Users dataset is not relevant to the recommendation system, thus we will not use it.


**Synopsis of the Project**
A recommendation system that requires us to suggest books to readers based on their interests is called a book recommendation system. We have all recorded data using three distinct datasets: Users (User-ID, Location, Age); Rating (User-ID, ISBN, Book-Rating); and Book (ISBN, Book-Title, Book-Author, Year-Of-Publication, Publisher, Image-URL-S, Image-URL-M, Image-URL-L).

We started by performing the EDA portion and data preparation, which included data cleaning and feature engineering. Create a recommendation system based on popularity (i.e., ratings) when the data has been prepared. All users receive these recommendations regardless of their personal characteristics. Combined the ratings with the book_data dataset, taking into account the ISBNs that were specifically rated for this recommendation system. The top 50 books with the highest average rating are all listed below, although we have only included those without more than 250 ratings.

Performing collaborative filtering is the third stage. Our first experiment on the train and test dataset was the memory-based approach, which computes user similarities based on items they have interacted with (i.e., user-based approach) or item similarities based on users that have interacted with them (i.e., item-based approach). It does this by using the memory of past user interactions. In order to prevent outliers and obtain more accurate results for the model, we will only use books that have been rated by more than 50 users and users who have rated more than 200 books combined. Next, we use cosine similarity to determine whether an item's similarity requires a matrix to be transposed. The train-test matrix could be managed with the use of this matrix. We find recommendations on it based on score after all views forecasts based on similarity.

The final stage is to write a function called recommend that will ask the user for the book's title and return four titles that are similar to it written by the same author.

**Conclusion**
In the past few decades, recommender systems have become increasingly prevalent in our lives due to the growth of web services like YouTube, Amazon, Netflix, and many more. Recommender systems are becoming an indispensible part of our everyday online experiences, from e-commerce (which suggests articles to buyers that might interest them) to online advertising (which suggests to users the proper contents, matching their tastes). Our goal in this project has been to develop a collaborative filtering-based book recommendation system for the user.

